.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_INIT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_init
.Nd initialize the libx11dnd library for a display
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_init "Display *dpy"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_init
interns every XDnD protocol atom needed by the
.Nm libx11dnd
library for the given
.Xr XDisplay 3
connection.
This includes
.Li XdndAware ,
.Li XdndEnter ,
.Li XdndPosition ,
.Li XdndStatus ,
.Li XdndLeave ,
.Li XdndDrop ,
.Li XdndFinished ,
.Li XdndActionCopy ,
and all other atoms defined by the freedesktop.org XDnD specification.
.Pp
It must be called once per
.Vt Display
before any other
.Nm
function using that display.
Calling any other
.Nm
function before
.Fn x11dnd_init
results in undefined behavior.
.Pp
If
.Fn x11dnd_init
fails, no other
.Nm
functions should be called on that display.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 0 on success.
Returns a non-zero value if atom interning failed, for example due to
an invalid display connection or X server error.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
Display *dpy = XOpenDisplay(NULL);
if (!dpy) exit(1);

if (x11dnd_init(dpy) != 0) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Failed to initialize libx11dnd\\n");
    exit(1);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_destroy 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3 ,
.Xr XOpenDisplay 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.