.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_START_DRAG 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_start_drag
.Nd initiate a drag from an Xt widget
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft X11DndSourceSession *
.Fn x11dnd_xt_start_drag "Widget w" "XButtonEvent *event" "X11DndClass *callbacks"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_start_drag
initiates a drag operation from the window of
.Fa w .
It calls
.Xr x11dnd_start_drag 3
and installs an Xt work proc that polls the pointer position,
moves the drag icon window (if configured via
.Xr x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon 3 ) ,
and dispatches XDnD events.
.Pp
.Fa event
should be the
.Vt XButtonEvent
that triggered the drag, typically obtained from an Xt translation or
event handler.
.Pp
The
.Fa callbacks
table must remain valid for the lifetime of the drag.
At least the
.Fn get_drag_data
callback should be set to provide selection data when the target requests it.
.Pp
If a drag icon has been configured with
.Xr x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon 3 ,
the library creates an override-redirect icon window at drag start,
moves it to follow the pointer during the drag, and destroys it at drag end.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns a new
.Vt X11DndSourceSession
handle on success, or
.Dv NULL
on failure.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
X11DndClass dnd_class = {0};
dnd_class.get_drag_data = my_get_drag_data_cb;
dnd_class.on_drag_end  = my_drag_end_cb;

static void start_drag_cb(Widget w, XEvent *event,
                          String *args, Cardinal *n_args)
{
    x11dnd_xt_start_drag(w, &event->xbutton, &dnd_class);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_cancel_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.