.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_DESTROY 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_destroy
.Nd release libx11dnd resources for a display
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft void
.Fn x11dnd_destroy "Display *dpy"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_destroy
releases all per-display internal state allocated by
.Xr x11dnd_init 3
for the given
.Xr XDisplay 3
connection.
Any active drag source or drop target sessions on
.Fa dpy
are cancelled.
.Pp
This function is safe to call multiple times on the same display.
Calling it when no initialization has been performed is a no-op.
.Pp
After calling
.Fn x11dnd_destroy ,
no other
.Nm libx11dnd
functions should be called on that display unless
.Xr x11dnd_init 3
is called again.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
None.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
x11dnd_destroy(dpy);
XCloseDisplay(dpy);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_init 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.