.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_TARGET_HANDLE_SELECTION_NOTIFY 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_target_handle_selection_notify
.Nd handle a SelectionNotify event for XdndSelection
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_target_handle_selection_notify "XEvent *ev"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_target_handle_selection_notify
handles a
.Li SelectionNotify
event for the
.Li XdndSelection
selection.
It detects INCR (incremental) transfers and starts incremental collection
if needed, or delivers immediate data to the
.Fn drop_received
callback in the registered
.Vt X11DndClass
structure.
.Pp
Feed
.Li SelectionNotify
events to this function from the application's event loop.
Alternatively,
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3
will also dispatch these events automatically.
.Pp
The
.Fa ev
parameter must be a
.Li SelectionNotify
event for
.Li XdndSelection .
Other events are ignored.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 1 if the event was consumed by a target session, 0 otherwise.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_target_request_selection 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.