.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_REGISTER_TARGET 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_register_target
.Nd register a widget's shell as an XDnD drop target (Xt convenience)
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_xt_register_target "Widget w" "X11DndClass *callbacks"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_register_target
walks up from
.Fa w
to its shell ancestor via
.Fn XtParent
and registers that shell window as an XDnD drop target.
The
.Li XdndAware
property is set on the shell window because the XDnD specification
requires awareness to be advertised on the top-level shell.
.Pp
The
.Fa callbacks
table must remain valid while the widget is registered.
At minimum,
.Fn position_received
and
.Fn drop_received
should be set for a functional drop target.
.Pp
This function internally calls
.Xr x11dnd_register_target 3
on the shell window.
It also ensures that
.Xr x11dnd_init 3
has been called on the display.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 0 on success.
Returns a non-zero value on failure.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
X11DndClass dnd_class = {0};
dnd_class.position_received = my_position_cb;
dnd_class.drop_received     = my_drop_cb;

x11dnd_xt_register_target(my_list_widget, &dnd_class);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_unregister_target 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_register_target 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.