.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_SET_POLL_INTERVAL 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_set_poll_interval
.Nd set the pointer tracking poll interval for Xt drag operations
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft void
.Fn x11dnd_xt_set_poll_interval "unsigned int ms"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_set_poll_interval
sets the pointer tracking poll interval in milliseconds.
The default is 16 ms.
Lower values give smoother icon tracking but higher CPU usage.
Values are clamped to the range 1 to 1000 ms.
Must be called before starting a drag.
.Pp
When
.Dv X11DND_ICON_CANCEL_ESC
is set, the library polls the keyboard via
.Xr XQueryKeymap 3
at this interval and calls
.Xr x11dnd_xt_cancel_drag 3
when the Escape key is pressed.
This works even during Motif's implicit pointer grab where
.Fn XGrabKey
and Xt translations would fail.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
None.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.