.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_STOP_TRACKING 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_stop_tracking
.Nd stop the Xt work proc and timer for drag pointer tracking
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft void
.Fn x11dnd_xt_stop_tracking "void"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_stop_tracking
stops the Xt work proc and timer used for drag pointer tracking.
Call after
.Li XdndDrop
has been sent.
.Pp
The source session remains alive so that
.Li XdndFinished
and
.Li SelectionRequest
events can still arrive.
The
.Fn on_drag_end
callback will clean up the session.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
None.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_cancel_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.