.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_TARGET_REQUEST_SELECTION 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_target_request_selection
.Nd request drop data from the drag source after XdndDrop
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft Bool
.Fn x11dnd_target_request_selection "X11DndTargetSession *sess" "Atom property"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_target_request_selection
requests the selection data from the drag source after
.Li XdndDrop
has been received by the target.
The application should call this from its event loop after receiving
.Li XdndDrop .
.Pp
The library selects the best type from the source's type list,
preferring
.Dv X11DND_MIME_URI_LIST ,
then
.Dv UTF8_STRING ,
.Dv STRING ,
.Dv text/plain ,
and
.Dv FILE_NAME .
.Pp
.Fa sess
must be a valid target session in the DROP_PENDING state.
.Fa property
is the property atom to use for the transfer, typically
.Li XdndSelection
or a dedicated property atom such as one named
.Li Xdnd_DATA .
.Pp
The resulting
.Li SelectionNotify
event should be fed to
.Xr x11dnd_target_handle_selection_notify 3
or
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns
.Dv True
if the selection request was sent successfully.
Returns
.Dv False
if the session is invalid, not in DROP_PENDING state, or the
selection request could not be sent.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_target_handle_selection_notify 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_register_target 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.