.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_INIT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_init
.Nd initialize libx11dnd for Xt-based applications
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_xt_init "Widget app_shell"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_init
initializes the
.Nm libx11dnd
library for Xt/Motif applications.
It calls
.Xr x11dnd_init 3
on the display of
.Fa app_shell ,
then registers Xt event handlers on the shell for
.Li ClientMessage
(XDnD protocol events) and
.Li PropertyNotify
(INCR transfer) events.
.Pp
The application shell
.Fa app_shell
must be realized before calling this function.
.Pp
This function should be called once at application startup, after
.Fn XtAppInitialize
or
.Fn XtVaOpenApplication
and after the shell is realized.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 0 on success.
Returns a non-zero value if
.Xr x11dnd_init 3
failed or Xt event handler registration failed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
Widget shell = XtVaOpenApplication(&app, "MyApp",
    NULL, 0, &argc, argv, NULL,
    sessionShellWidgetClass, NULL);
XtRealizeWidget(shell);

if (x11dnd_xt_init(shell) != 0) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Failed to init libx11dnd\\n");
    exit(1);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_destroy 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_init 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.