.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_REGISTER_TARGET 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_register_target
.Nd register a window as an XDnD drop target
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_register_target "Display *dpy" "Window win" "X11DndClass *callbacks" "void *user_data"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_register_target
sets the
.Li XdndAware
property on
.Fa win
advertising XDnD version 5 and records the
.Fa callbacks
table for dispatching XdndEnter, XdndPosition, XdndDrop, and XdndLeave
events for that window.
.Pp
The
.Fa callbacks
table must remain valid while the window is registered.
At minimum,
.Fn position_received
and
.Fn drop_received
should be set for a functional drop target.
.Pp
.Fa user_data
is an opaque pointer stored in the session and retrievable via
.Xr x11dnd_target_get_user_data 3 .
It may be
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
After calling
.Fn x11dnd_register_target ,
the application must feed X events to
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3
from its event loop.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 0 on success.
Returns a non-zero value on failure, for example if the
.Li XdndAware
property could not be set or memory allocation failed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_unregister_target 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_target_request_selection 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.