.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_SET_DRAG_ICON 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon
.Nd set the drag icon configuration for Xt drag operations
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft void
.Fn x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon "const X11DndDragIcon *icon"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon
sets the drag icon configuration used for visual feedback during drag
operations.
Must be called before
.Xr x11dnd_xt_start_drag 3 .
.Pp
If
.Fa icon
is
.Dv NULL ,
no icon window is created and drag tracking shows no visual cursor feedback
beyond the default pointer.
.Pp
The
.Vt X11DndDragIcon
struct must have static or global lifetime.
The library stores only the pointer, not a copy.
Do NOT pass a stack-allocated struct.
.Pp
The library creates the icon window at drag start, moves it during the
drag, and destroys it at drag end or cancel.
The application must NOT create, move, or destroy the icon window manually.
.Pp
When
.Dv X11DND_ICON_SHAPE_MASK
is set in the
.Fa flags
field, the application must link against
.Li -lXext
for the XShape extension.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
static X11DndDragIcon drag_icon;
drag_icon.bits      = my_icon_bits;
drag_icon.mask_bits = my_icon_m_bits;
drag_icon.width     = my_icon_width;
drag_icon.height    = my_icon_height;
drag_icon.hotspot_x = 12;
drag_icon.hotspot_y = 12;
drag_icon.fg_pixel  = BlackPixelOfScreen(XtScreen(shell));
drag_icon.bg_pixel  = WhitePixelOfScreen(XtScreen(shell));
drag_icon.flags     = X11DND_ICON_CANCEL_ESC | X11DND_ICON_SHAPE_MASK;

x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon(&drag_icon);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_cancel_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.