.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_XT_PROCESS_EVENT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_xt_process_event
.Nd feed an X event into libx11dnd from an Xt event loop
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_xt_process_event "Widget w" "XEvent *ev"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_xt_process_event
feeds an X event into
.Nm libx11dnd
from an Xt event loop context.
It dispatches
.Li ClientMessage ,
.Li SelectionNotify ,
.Li SelectionRequest ,
and
.Li SelectionClear
events to the appropriate source or target session.
.Pp
The event handler installed by
.Xr x11dnd_xt_init 3
calls this function automatically for every X event.
However, it can also be called manually when the application processes
events itself, for example:
.Bd -literal
XEvent ev;
while (1) {
    XtAppNextEvent(app, &ev);
    if (!x11dnd_xt_process_event(NULL, &ev)) {
        XtDispatchEvent(&ev);
    }
}
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Fa w
parameter may be
.Dv NULL
for Selection events.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 1 if the event was consumed by
.Nm libx11dnd ,
0 otherwise.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_xt_init 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_source_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.