.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libx11dnd
.Nd C99 library for the X Drag-and-Drop protocol version 5
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Pp
.In x11dnd_xt.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
library implements the freedesktop.org X Drag-and-Drop (XDnD) protocol
version 5 for X11 clients.
It provides both a pure Xlib core API and an optional Xt/Motif integration
wrapper, making it suitable for any X11 program or for applications
already using the X Toolkit Intrinsics.
.Pp
A separate static convenience library,
.Li libx11dnd.a ,
is built from the
.Nm
source and linked directly into the consuming application.
The public API is split between two headers:
.Bl -tag -width 16n
.It In x11dnd.h
Pure Xlib core API.
No Xt or Motif dependency.
.It In x11dnd_xt.h
Convenience wrapper for Xt/Motif programs.
This header includes
.In X11/Intrinsic.h .
.El
.Pp
The library handles the full drag-and-drop lifecycle: source sessions,
target registration, XdndEnter, XdndPosition, XdndStatus, XdndLeave,
XdndDrop, XdndFinished, action negotiation, type selection, incremental
selection transfers, XdndDirectSave, and XdndProxy support.
.Sh PROTOCOL VERSIONS
.Bl -tag -width "X11DND_VERSION_MIN"
.It Dv X11DND_VERSION_5
The maximum XDnD protocol version implemented by the library, currently 5.
.It Dv X11DND_VERSION_MIN
The minimum XDnD protocol version supported by the library, currently 3.
Peers advertising a version below this value will be rejected.
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
The
.Vt X11DndAction
enum provides logical identifiers for the standard XDnD actions.
The library maps these to interned
.Li XdndAction*
atoms during
.Fn x11dnd_init .
.Bl -tag -width "X11DND_ACTION_DIRECT_SAVE" -offset indent
.It Dv X11DND_ACTION_COPY
Copy action
.Pq XdndActionCopy .
.It Dv X11DND_ACTION_MOVE
Move action
.Pq XdndActionMove .
.It Dv X11DND_ACTION_LINK
Link action
.Pq XdndActionLink .
.It Dv X11DND_ACTION_ASK
Ask-user action
.Pq XdndActionAsk .
The target should present a menu and let the user choose.
.It Dv X11DND_ACTION_PRIVATE
Private action
.Pq XdndActionPrivate .
.It Dv X11DND_ACTION_DIRECT_SAVE
Direct save action
.Pq XdndActionDirectSave .
Used by the XdndDirectSave protocol.
.El
.Sh DRAG ICON FLAGS
.Bl -tag -width "X11DND_ICON_SHAPE_MASK"
.It Dv X11DND_ICON_CANCEL_ESC
.Pq 0x01
Enable ESC key cancel during a drag.
The library polls the keyboard with
.Xr XQueryKeymap 3
in its timer callback and calls
.Fn x11dnd_xt_cancel_drag
when Escape is pressed.
.It Dv X11DND_ICON_SHAPE_MASK
.Pq 0x02
Apply the
.Fa mask_bits
field of
.Vt X11DndDragIcon
as an XShape bounding mask for a transparent icon background.
The XShape extension is required when this flag is used, and the
application must link against
.Li -lXext .
.El
.Sh MIME TYPES
The following string constants are provided for common XDnD transfer targets.
.Bl -tag -width "X11DND_MIME_FILE_LIST" -offset indent
.It Dv X11DND_MIME_URI_LIST
.Li "text/uri-list"
\(em RFC 2483 URI list, the primary file drag format.
.It Dv X11DND_MIME_UTF8_STRING
.Li "UTF8_STRING"
\(em UTF-8 encoded string.
.It Dv X11DND_MIME_STRING
.Li "STRING"
\(em Latin-1 encoded string.
.It Dv X11DND_MIME_TEXT_PLAIN
.Li "text/plain"
\(em Plain text.
.It Dv X11DND_MIME_FILE_NAME
.Li "FILE_NAME"
\(em Legacy COMPOUND_TEXT file name.
.It Dv X11DND_MIME_FILE_LIST
.Li "application/x-file-list"
\(em XFile-specific file list format.
.El
.Sh DATA TYPES
.Ss X11DndDragIcon
The
.Vt X11DndDragIcon
structure describes the visual drag icon used during Xt/Motif drags.
.Bd -literal
typedef struct X11DndDragIcon {
    const unsigned char *bits;
    const unsigned char *mask_bits;
    int width;
    int height;
    int hotspot_x;
    int hotspot_y;
    unsigned long fg_pixel;
    unsigned long bg_pixel;
    unsigned int flags;
} X11DndDragIcon;
.Ed
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "mask_bits"
.It Fa bits
XBM bitmap data for the icon foreground.
.It Fa mask_bits
XBM mask data, or
.Dv NULL
for a rectangular icon with no shape mask.
.It Fa width , Fa height
Icon dimensions in pixels.
.It Fa hotspot_x , Fa hotspot_y
Offset from the pointer position.
For example, values of 12 place the icon 12 pixels right and 12 pixels down from the pointer.
.It Fa fg_pixel
Foreground pixel value, for example
.Fn BlackPixelOfScreen .
.It Fa bg_pixel
Background pixel value, for example
.Fn WhitePixelOfScreen .
.It Fa flags
Bitwise OR of
.Dv X11DND_ICON_CANCEL_ESC
and
.Dv X11DND_ICON_SHAPE_MASK .
.El
.Pp
The
.Vt X11DndDragIcon
struct passed to
.Fn x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon
must have static or global lifetime.
The library stores only the pointer, not a copy.
Do NOT pass a stack-allocated struct.
.Ss X11DndClass
The
.Vt X11DndClass
structure is the callback table passed to
.Fn x11dnd_start_drag
for drag sources and to
.Fn x11dnd_register_target
for drop targets.
Unused slots may be left as
.Dv NULL .
.Bl -tag -width "finished_received"
.It Fn on_drag_begin
Called when a drag operation begins, after
.Li XdndEnter
has been sent.
If a drag icon is configured, the library has already created the icon window at this point.
.It Fn on_drag_end
Called when a drag operation ends, after
.Li XdndFinished
or cancellation.
The library destroys the icon window before calling this callback.
.It Fn get_drag_data
Provide drag data for a
.Li SelectionRequest .
See
.Vt x11dnd_drag_data_cb .
.It Fn status_received
Receive
.Li XdndStatus
from the target.
See
.Vt x11dnd_status_cb .
.It Fn finished_received
Receive
.Li XdndFinished
from the target.
See
.Vt x11dnd_finished_cb .
.It Fn on_enter
Receive
.Li XdndEnter :
the source has begun a drag over this target.
.It Fn position_received
Receive
.Li XdndPosition .
See
.Vt x11dnd_position_cb .
.It Fn on_leave
Receive
.Li XdndLeave :
the source has left the target window.
.It Fn drop_received
Receive drop data after
.Li SelectionNotify .
See
.Vt x11dnd_drop_received_cb .
.It Fn action_ask
Handle
.Li XdndActionAsk
by presenting an action menu.
See
.Vt x11dnd_action_ask_cb .
.It Fn on_error
Called when the library reports an error.
.Fa severity
is 0 for info, 1 for warning, 2 for error, and 3 for fatal.
.El
.Ss Callback typedefs
.Bl -tag -width "x11dnd_drop_received_cb"
.It Vt x11dnd_drag_data_cb
.Bd -literal
typedef void (*x11dnd_drag_data_cb)(
    X11DndSourceSession *sess, Atom target,
    unsigned char **data_ret, unsigned long *length_ret,
    int *format_ret);
.Ed
Called when the source receives a
.Li SelectionRequest .
The source must allocate a buffer with
.Xr Xmalloc 3 ,
fill
.Fa *data_ret ,
.Fa *length_ret ,
and
.Fa *format_ret .
The library frees
.Fa *data_ret
with
.Xr XFree 3
after delivery.
.It Vt x11dnd_drop_received_cb
.Bd -literal
typedef void (*x11dnd_drop_received_cb)(
    X11DndTargetSession *sess, Atom target,
    unsigned char *data, unsigned long length, int format);
.Ed
Called after the target has fetched the selection data.
.Fa data
is read-only and is freed after the callback returns.
.It Vt x11dnd_action_ask_cb
.Bd -literal
typedef void (*x11dnd_action_ask_cb)(
    X11DndTargetSession *sess, Atom *actions, int n_actions,
    char **descriptions, int n_desc, Atom *chosen_action_ret);
.Ed
Called when
.Li XdndActionAsk
is negotiated.
Store the atom selected by the user in
.Fa *chosen_action_ret .
.It Vt x11dnd_position_cb
.Bd -literal
typedef void (*x11dnd_position_cb)(
    X11DndTargetSession *sess, int x, int y, Time time,
    Atom action, Bool *accept_ret, Atom *action_ret,
    int *rect_x, int *rect_y, int *rect_w, int *rect_h);
.Ed
Called whenever the source sends an
.Li XdndPosition
message.
Set
.Fa *rect_x
through
.Fa *rect_h
to 0 to report no rectangle.
.It Vt x11dnd_status_cb
.Bd -literal
typedef void (*x11dnd_status_cb)(
    X11DndSourceSession *sess, Bool accept,
    int x, int y, int w, int h, Atom action);
.Ed
Called when the source receives an
.Li XdndStatus
reply from the target.
.It Vt x11dnd_finished_cb
.Bd -literal
typedef void (*x11dnd_finished_cb)(
    X11DndSourceSession *sess, Bool success, Atom performed_action);
.Ed
Called when the source receives
.Li XdndFinished .
.Fa performed_action
is
.Dv None
if the target does not support version 5 action reporting.
.El
.Sh OPAQUE HANDLES
The library uses two opaque handle types:
.Bl -tag -width "X11DndTargetSession"
.It Vt X11DndSourceSession
Created by
.Fn x11dnd_start_drag ,
destroyed by
.Fn x11dnd_end_drag
or
.Fn x11dnd_cancel_drag .
Carries the source window, negotiated types, actions, callbacks, and user data.
.It Vt X11DndTargetSession
Created implicitly when
.Li XdndEnter
is received for a registered window, destroyed when
.Li XdndLeave
is received or the window is unregistered.
.El
.Sh THREAD SAFETY
.Nm
is not thread-safe.
All calls must be made from the Xt main thread, or from whatever single
thread owns the
.Vt Display
connection and runs the application's X event loop.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_init 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_destroy 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_register_target 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_set_aware 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_source_get_user_data 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_init 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_register_target 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_set_drag_icon 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_xt_process_event 3 ,
.Xr X 7 ,
.Xr Xlib 3 ,
.Xr Xt 3 ,
.Xr Xm 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.
See the
.Pa COPYING
file in the source distribution for the full license text.