.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_START_DRAG 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_start_drag
.Nd begin a drag operation from a source window
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft X11DndSourceSession *
.Fn x11dnd_start_drag "Display *dpy" "Window source_win" "X11DndClass *callbacks" "Time time" "Atom *types" "int n_types" "Atom *actions" "int n_actions" "void *user_data"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_start_drag
begins a drag-and-drop operation from
.Fa source_win .
It takes ownership of the
.Li XdndSelection
selection, sets up a source session with the given callbacks,
offered types, offered actions, and user data, and returns an opaque
source session handle.
.Pp
The
.Fa callbacks
table must remain valid for the lifetime of the drag.
At least the
.Fn get_drag_data
callback should be set to provide selection data when the target requests it.
.Pp
.Fa time
is the server timestamp of the button event that initiated the drag
(typically
.Fa event->xbutton.time
from a
.Vt XButtonEvent ) .
.Pp
.Fa types
is an array of target type atoms offered by the source, for example
.Dv X11DND_MIME_URI_LIST .
.Fa n_types
specifies the number of entries in
.Fa types .
.Pp
.Fa actions
is an array of action atoms offered by the source, for example
.Dv X11DND_ACTION_COPY .
If
.Fa actions
is
.Dv NULL ,
the source offers copy only.
.Fa n_actions
specifies the number of entries in
.Fa actions .
.Pp
.Fa user_data
is an opaque pointer stored in the session and retrievable via
.Xr x11dnd_source_get_user_data 3 .
It may be
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
After calling
.Fn x11dnd_start_drag ,
the application must feed X events to
.Xr x11dnd_source_process_event 3
from its event loop.
The source session remains active until
.Xr x11dnd_end_drag 3
or
.Xr x11dnd_cancel_drag 3
is called.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns a new
.Vt X11DndSourceSession
handle on success, or
.Dv NULL
on failure.
A failure typically indicates that the
.Li XdndSelection
could not be acquired or memory allocation failed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
X11DndClass dnd_class = {0};
dnd_class.get_drag_data = my_drag_data_cb;
dnd_class.on_drag_end = my_drag_end_cb;

Atom types[] = { XInternAtom(dpy, X11DND_MIME_URI_LIST, False) };
Atom actions[] = { XInternAtom(dpy, "XdndActionCopy", False),
                   XInternAtom(dpy, "XdndActionMove", False) };

X11DndSourceSession *sess = x11dnd_start_drag(
    dpy, my_window, &dnd_class,
    event.xbutton.time, types, 1, actions, 2, NULL);
if (!sess) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Drag start failed\\n");
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_cancel_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_end_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_source_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_source_get_user_data 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.