.\" Copyright (C) 2025-2026 alx@fastestcode.org
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.Dd June 24, 2026
.Dt X11DND_SOURCE_PROCESS_EVENT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm x11dnd_source_process_event
.Nd dispatch an X event to the active drag source session
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libx11dnd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In x11dnd.h
.Ft int
.Fn x11dnd_source_process_event "XEvent *ev"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn x11dnd_source_process_event
dispatches an X event to the active drag source session.
Feed
.Li ClientMessage
.Pq XdndStatus, XdndFinished ,
.Li SelectionRequest ,
and
.Li SelectionClear
events to this function from the application's event loop.
.Pp
This function should be called for every X event received during a drag
operation.
If the event is not related to XDnD source processing, it returns 0
and the event should be dispatched normally.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns 1 if the event was consumed by a source session, 0 otherwise.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
XEvent ev;
while (1) {
    XNextEvent(dpy, &ev);
    if (!x11dnd_source_process_event(&ev)) {
        /* Event was not for libx11dnd; handle normally */
    }
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr x11dnd_start_drag 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd_target_process_event 3 ,
.Xr x11dnd 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An alx@fastestcode.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is distributed under the X/MIT license.