.SH USER INTERFACE
.SS Directory View
The directory view is navigated either with the pointer or arrow keys.
For both, the \fBShift\fP modifier key is utilized for extending a selection,
the \fBCtrl\fP for adding and subtracting selected items. When navigating
using arrow keys with the \fBCtrl\fP modifier depressed, only the focus
rectangle is moved, allowing to add focused items to the selected set
by pressing the \fBSpacebar\fP key.
.PP
\fBEnter\fP executes the default action for the selected item. \fBSpacebar\fP
toggles the selection. \fBBackspace\fP changes to the parent directory.
.PP
Typing into the directory view will select the next matching file name. Pressing
\fBCtrl + n\fP will incrementally search for, and highlight the next matching
file name. The search string will be reset after a few seconds, or when the key
bound to \fBosfCancel\fP (typically \fBEsc\fP) is pressed (see the FileList
widget \fBlookupTimeout\fP resource).
.SS Pasting Selections
The primary X selection is utilized for file transfer. When one or more
files are selected in an XFile window, these may be pasted in another with
the \fBEdit > Copy Here\fP and \fBEdit > Move Here\fP menu commands.
.PP
XFile owned selection may also be pasted as a list of space separated
file names in an application/widget that requests plain-text data, such
as terminal or text editor.
.SS Drag and Drop
When the \fBdragAndDrop\fP resource is enabled (the default), selected files
may be dragged from one XFile window and dropped onto another. Drag is
initiated by pressing \fBBtn1\fP (left mouse button) on a selected item and
moving the pointer while holding the button.
.PP
The modifier keys determine the drag operation:
.TP
.BR None " (default drag)"
For drops within the same XFile window, the default operation is
\fBMove\fP; for drops across windows or from external applications,
the default operation is \fBCopy\fP.
.TP
.BR Ctrl + drag
Forces a \fBCopy\fP operation regardless of source and destination.
.TP
.BR Shift + drag
Forces a \fBMove\fP operation regardless of source and destination.
.PP
Dropping files onto the same directory they originate from is rejected.
Symbolic link operations are not supported in drag-and-drop.
.PP
When \fBconfirmDnDMove\fP is enabled (the default), move operations
will prompt for confirmation before proceeding. The \fBdndDefaultOperation\fP
resource controls the default operation when no modifier key is held
during a same-window drag (valid values: \fBmove\fP or \fBcopy\fP).
.SS Mount Points
For mount points, Mount/Unmount action will be displayed in the context menu.
Depending on system configuration, alternate un/mount command may
be specified (see mountCommand, unmountCommand), or disabled (see userMounts).
.PP
XFile may be configured to utilize a user mount daemon that manages a "media"
directory (see mediaDirectory, mediaMountCommand, mediaUnmountCommand X
resources).
.SS Filter and Select Pattern Dialogs
The Select Pattern dialog may be used to select file names matching
a \fIglob\fP pattern. The filter dialog allows to filter displayed files
matching a \fIglob\fP pattern (see also the \fB-f\fP command line option).
.PP
Prefix the whole pattern with the \fB!\fP character to negate. Specify
multiple patterns by separating them with the \fB|\fP character.
Double ! and | characters to remove their special meaning.
.SS File/Context Menu
Actions defined in the file type database appear first in File/Context menus,
in the order they were defined. First action in the list is the default -
that is, it's being run whenever an item in the list is activated.
.SS Tools Menu
XFile features a drop-down menu for user defined tools. The \fBTools\fP
menu will be displayed once content is added to it using X resources as
follows:
.PP
XFile.tools.<tool name>: <command>
.PP
The command string may contain following context dependent variables:
.PP
.nf
.ta 4m
%n	Selected file name(s).
%p	Current directory (CWD).
%u	User specified parameters (an input dialog will be shown).
.fi
.PP
Environment variables may also be specified using \fBsh\fP syntax.
.PP
To set standard Motif resources, such as label string, mnemonic, position and
accelerators, menu item widgets (see XmPushButtonGadget(3)) in the Tools menu
may be referred to as XFile.mainMenu.toolsMenu.\fI<tool name>\fP.
Most relevant resources are listed below.
.PP
.nf
.ta 16m
labelString	\fIString\fP
mnemonic	\fICharacter\fP
acceleratorText	\fIString\fP
accelerator	\fIKeySym\fP
positionIndex	\fIInteger\fP
.fi
.SS Icons
By default, icon size is deduced from label font height. This can be controlled
with the iconSize resource. Custom icons may be installed in .xfile/icons
user's home sub-directory (see also the \fBFILES\fP section). If an icon
specified in the type database cannot be found, a built-in, generic icon will
be used instead.
